Visually impaired persons have difficulty to interact and feel their
environment. They have little contact with surroundings. Physical movement is
a challenge for visually impaired persons, because it can become tricky to
distinguish obstacles appearing in front of them, and they are not able to move
from one place to another.
They depend on their families for mobility and financial support. Their
mobility opposes them from interacting with people and social activities. In the
past, different systems are designed with limitations without a solid
understanding of the nonvisual perception. Researchers have spent the decades
to develop an intelligent and smart stick to assist and alert visually impaired
persons from obstacles and give information about their location. Over the last
decades, research has been conducted for new devices to design a good and
reliable system for visually impaired persons to detect obstacles and warn them
at danger places.
Smart walking stick is specially designed to detect obstacles which may
help the blind to navigate care-free. The audio messages will keep the user alert
and considerably reduce accidents. A voice enabled automatic switching is also
incorporated to help them in private space as well. This system presents a
concept to provide a smart electronic aid for blind people, both in public and
private space The proposed system contains the ultrasonic sensor, water sensor,
voice play back board, raspberry pi and speaker. The proposed system detects
the obstacle images which are present in outdoor and indoor with the help of a
camera. The Stick measures the distance between the objects and smart walking
stick by using an ultrasonic sensor. When any objects or obstacles come in
range of an ultrasonic sensor then the head phone tell the name of obstacle
which is in front of the stick. The smart walking stick is a simple and purely
mechanical device to detect the obstacles on the ground. This device is light in
weight and portable. But its range is limited due to its own size. It provides the
best travel aid for the person. The blind person can move from one place to
another independently without the others help. The main aim of the system is to
provide a efficient navigation aid for the blind persons which gives a sense of
vision by providing the information about their surroundings and objects around
them.
